NOTES. 133

12. ltaque . . . vocitatus est: this was chiefly because it and
Andocides played leading parts in a suit-atlaw in reference to
this mutilation. He did not erect it himself, but one of the ten ·
Attic tribes had done so. The Atheniens banished Andocides
believing he was connected with the outrage.

13. hbc: subject accus. of esse fectum.

13. appareret: the remainder of the clause is subject of this
verb.

14. quae . . .pertin51e‘t: having to da with a matter notcy
private but of public concern; the subjunctive shows it to be
given as the thought of the people. Pericles established a com-
plete democracy‚ and there were clubs formed at once which con·
stantly labored forits overthrow.

16. multitudini: populace.

16. qua: some; the indefinite nom. sing. fem.

ro repentim: an adj. with vis; trans. as an adv. with ex-
sisteret.

17. quae. . . opprimeret: the readiness of the Athenians to
think so, was due to their habitual state of mind; ef. the tense
of extimescebam, p. 8, l. 11; cf. also Them.8,1; Cimon 3, ι.

18. hdo: ie„ the forming of a conspiracy to overthrow the ,
democracy.

18. convenire in: ta be likely os, lit. ta came together ta.

19. maior: cs. the meaning of magnus, p. 20, l. 1. The com·
parative may be translated tao powerflel, etc„ fer.

19. priuatus: cf non ridebatur posse esse privatus, p. 8, l. 13.

20. devinxerat: (devincid) supply sibi; lead laid under obli-
gatiam to him. ’

21. plures etiem: still mare, thus often etiam with a com·
parative. ·

21. operi forensi: assistance in court ,¹ the word forensi and
the fact of pleading in court for another Nepos borrows frorn
Roman affairs. At Rome the law-courts were held in the Forum
and advocates were allowed; at Athens the law required each
man personally to conduct his own defense.

²3· prddiseet: for prodlrisset; pro (old form prod) . . . eo, as
below pro (prad) . . . esse = prodesse.

 

