22 · woxn-GROUPS.

militas, ccscsulness, utllt'ty.
infitias, useless.

= ιίευε, use, need.

VEH·, [VAG-], mooe, carry.

veho, bear, carry.

invehor, bear one's sels against,
attach, inoecgh against.

pervehf), carry, carry to.

vectigal, income, revenere, tax.

obviam [for vehiam], in the way
os.

volum [for vehelum], sall.

voa, [vA-‚ BA-]‚ go.

venis), come.
advenio, come to, arrive.
invenio, come upon, find.
pervenio, come to, arrioe at.
adventus, approach, arrival.
cantis> [for con-venti6]‚ rneetlng.
conventus, meeting, assembly. ’
adventt'), come to, approach.
arbitror (ar=ad) [go to as wit-
ness],judge.
arbitrium, judgment, will.

vm, turn.

verto, turn.

averto, turn away.

adverto, turn to.

converto, turn completely, turn.

revertor, turn back, return.

animadvert6,turntl1eottentionto. Ἴ

versus, turning, line, verse.

versor, keep turning, move about,
be.

adversus, turn towards, fhcing,
against.

adversarius apponent.

adversum (prep.)‚ against.

adversum (subst.), calamity.

exadversum, over against.¹

diversus, turned differem ways,
different.

rfirsus [for retorsas], turned
back, buckward, again.

finiversus, turned into one, all,
whole.

V1-, vlo, naim.

vinum,wine(product of the vine).
vinolentus‚full oswine.

vinea, vlneyard, sled (built like

an arbor for vines).
devincis), lind fast.
vinculum, sotter.
vitium, fault (twist).

vlo, conquer.

vinco, conquer.
deviner), conquer completely, sal
due.

lictor, conqueror.
victoria, victory.
invictus, nnconquered.

 

